ev3dev-info.md, before:

# Web Links

# EV3 Environment Comparisons
* [PyBricks vs ev3dev2](https://github.com/pybricks/pybricks-api/issues/22#:~:text=The%20short%20answer%3A%20the%20ev3dev2%20module%20and%20pybricks,particular%20functionality%20which%20is%20only%20available%20in%20ev3dev-lang-python.?msclkid=9cfb4ebfcf5a11ec8cf3984471c0347e)

```
 Thanks for your elaborate reply @WasabiFan, I think that covers it very well.

I [...] don't know what is/isn't supported or what the roadmap looks like.

You can view the supported API here.
The Pybricks roadmap is here.
David and Laurens started developing pybricks much more recently, with the aim of supporting other MINDSTORMS platforms which then also grew to include stock ev3dev (at least, based on my recollection). The pybricks interfaces are very well-designed, carefully-considered APIs for core robot programming, without the external signs of any particular driver design.

This is entirely correct. To add some more detail: Pybricks includes its own set of motor drivers so they could be used on all the embedded programmable hubs beyond EV3. This also allowed us to integrate drive base synchronization, and things like working ramping/acceleration and stall detection.

Historically, EV3 support for Pybricks mainly started because ev3dev was a lot easier to debug than the embedded hubs we were originally targeting. We could design high level control code, debug and datalog it extensively, and glue it back onto the more minimal embedded systems when we knew the high level things were stable. After a while though, it was natural step to include EV3 in the main roadmap. It is now quite fully-featured.

But a noteworthy advantage of ev3dev2 (and this will remain so), is that it can run with regular python3, which can be invaluable if you need certain Python libraries.

are they converging or diverging going forward?

So to get back to the original question, I think they might continue to exist in parallel. EV3 support in Pybricks is essentially final, and we do currently not plan to change any of the API in a breaking way. It sounds like the same holds for ev3dev2, so they might neither converge nor diverge.
```

Commit message:

Added info from pybrick forum

ev3dev-info.md, after:

# Web Links

# EV3 Environment Comparisons
* [PyBricks vs ev3dev2](https://github.com/pybricks/pybricks-api/issues/22#:~:text=The%20short%20answer%3A%20the%20ev3dev2%20module%20and%20pybricks,particular%20functionality%20which%20is%20only%20available%20in%20ev3dev-lang-python.?msclkid=9cfb4ebfcf5a11ec8cf3984471c0347e)

```
Thanks for your elaborate reply @WasabiFan, I think that covers it very well.

I [...] don't know what is/isn't supported or what the roadmap looks like.

You can view the supported API here.
The Pybricks roadmap is here.
David and Laurens started developing pybricks much more recently, with the aim of supporting other MINDSTORMS platforms which then also grew to include stock ev3dev (at least, based on my recollection). The pybricks interfaces are very well-designed, carefully-considered APIs for core robot programming, without the external signs of any particular driver design.

This is entirely correct. To add some more detail: Pybricks includes its own set of motor drivers so they could be used on all the embedded programmable hubs beyond EV3. This also allowed us to integrate drive base synchronization, and things like working ramping/acceleration and stall detection.

Historically, EV3 support for Pybricks mainly started because ev3dev was a lot easier to debug than the embedded hubs we were originally targeting. We could design high level control code, debug and datalog it extensively, and glue it back onto the more minimal embedded systems when we knew the high level things were stable. After a while though, it was natural step to include EV3 in the main roadmap. It is now quite fully-featured.

But a noteworthy advantage of ev3dev2 (and this will remain so), is that it can run with regular python3, which can be invaluable if you need certain Python libraries.

are they converging or diverging going forward?

So to get back to the original question, I think they might continue to exist in parallel. EV3 support in Pybricks is essentially final, and we do currently not plan to change any of the API in a breaking way. It sounds like the same holds for ev3dev2, so they might neither converge nor diverge.
```

* [Pybrick forum discussion ](https://gitter.im/pybricks/community?at=60f47d8a38da567d82a970db)
```
Dave Cowden @dcowden Jul 18 2021 14:22
Hi, I'm Dave, coach for FLL team 1670 in Greenville, SC
we've moved to Python this year, and we'd love to run this season on pybricks vs the stock Lego firmward. The inventor flavor is slightly better than the lego education version, but neither appear to be as nice as pybricks would be. Is there a list of features known NOT to be working for the spike prime?
features we would LOVE that stink about the stock spike prime:
(1) callbacks were removed
(2) you can't save and import your own modules ( everything has to be in one huge file!)
(3) annoying 'i need to re-image your firmware' cycles at random times
(4) no multithreading, and evidence of LOTS of work to remove it, including nerfing callbacks in their local version of eventloop
(5) really horrible UI where you can't effectively copy-paste from the console window; no way to clear the console;
(6) no web-based api, you have to use the cummy built-in help thing

Dave Cowden @dcowden Jul 18 2021 14:28
most of these problems also exist in the mindstorms inventor flavor-- pybricks would fix most if not all of them

David Lechner @dlech Jul 18 2021 15:14
Hi Dave. I'm afraid Pybricks won't be ready for FLL season this year. Some major missing pieces are being able to use the external flash memory and being able to charge the battery.
As for (4), Pybricks doesn't have multithreading (or callbacks) either. But there are alternatives for multitasking that work for both Pybricks and the official LEGO firmware.
Here are some examples that you might find useful:
https://gist.github.com/dlech/973714729f33b67092b736f541820233
https://github.com/pybricks/support/discussions/356

Dave Cowden @dcowden Jul 18 2021 16:00
Hi, David, thanks!
Yes, i'd come across those solutions. Using generators is a clever strategy, but im afraid it would be too much for our students at the moment.
WE'll look forward to using pybricks next year!
```
